---
layout: post
title: "Welcome"
author: Rowan Christie
---

**Welcome to SMCCoder's Blog!** In this blog, you'll find a collection of my
projects, ideas, and subjects I feel passionate about. You can go on ahead and explore, but
if you don't mind, I'd like to tell you a little about my backstory and why coding is such
a passion of mine.

When I graduated middle school, I had no idea what I wanted to do in the future. I'd taken
a few electives at my middle school, but there weren't that many, and I didn't do too much of
them outside school. I hadn't really... found my passion.

So when I first entered high school, I found quite a few electives I could sign up for. I wasn't
sure what to choose, so I decided to just try some different subjects out. I ended up taking a Design
class, Intro to Writing class, and a Creative Coding class. I really had no idea what Creative Coding
was, and I didn't even know it was a computer class, but it sounded intriguing, so I gave it a try.

The teachers showed us a program called Processing 2, and explained how we could draw things on it like
rectangles and ellipses, which was interesting. As we delved into it, it got a little bit more
confusing and frustrating, like with for loops. The syntax of for loops was difficult to remember, and I
wasn't sure how to apply it to get the desired result sometimes, like a gradient circle. However, when I
succeed in solving a problem, it felt liberating, and I thought, "Yes! It worked!".
However, I have found that not knowing to solve the problem at first can be even more interesting. You act
like a detective when you comment out things, trying to figure out what's causing the problem, and when you
solve it, you learn something new. I believe was a large part of what led to my passion in programming.
<!--<p>
When my mom found about a local internship program called Aprentices in Science and Engineering, she immdiately
suggested I apply for it, as there was a good oppurtunity nearby for learning coding. I was kind of nervous,
as it would be a very large commitment, but I went ahead and applied. Later, to my amazement, I was accepted.
</p>
-->
I really think more high schools should have computer science. It is not out of breath of a high school
education. When starting from the basics, it can be very easy to get start with programming young. There
are tons of good programs for young beginners, like P5, Processing 2, CodeCombat. And even if students don't
become interested in it as a career, it is a fantastic way to develop problem-solving skills.
